silicon is a semiconductor and its main
applications fall into three categories
first solar cells and components in
electronics like for example your mobile
telephone and your computer in this
group one utilizes the semiconducting
properties of silicon the next category
is aluminium alloys silicon is added as
an alloying element to aluminium to
enhance the properties of the alloy the
last category is the increasing use of
silicon to produce silicones silicones
have numerous uses from baking products
to stickers
the Earth's crust comprises 28% silicon
and 47% oxygen by weight there is a
large abundance of silicon and the
Earth's crust consists mainly of oxides
such as silicon dioxide if one wants to
produce elemental silicon one needs
however quite pure silicon dioxide
sources and hence most producers of
silicon import silicon dioxide the
silicon produced directly from silicon
dioxide is known as metallurgical grade
silicon and the pure silicon dioxide
material is called quartz to produce
metallurgical grade silicon one needs
quartz the raw material that contains
silicon and coal to remove the oxygen
from the quartz and wood chips to
maintain good permeability in the
furnace for the gas to escape
silicon is produced in large industrial
furnaces the production process requires
large amounts of energy 10 to 12
megawatt hours of the ton of silicon
produce as well as utilizing high
temperatures up to 2,000 degrees C and
the lower part of the fence the electric
energy is supplied by a three large
carbon electrodes that are submerged
into the raw materials the electrodes
will gradually be consumed and therefore
new electrode elements are added by
screwing them to the top of the furnace
electrodes the quartz carbon and wood
chips are added from silos at the top of
the furnace as the materials are
conveyed through the furnace the oxygen
is removed from the quartz and liquid
silicon is tapped from the lower part of
the furnace at high temperatures the
liquid silicon is tapped into laters
where small parts of aluminium and
calcium are reduced
after this refining process the liquid
silicon is cast into beds to solidify
the solidified silicon is then crushed
and shipped to the customer
the simplified equation of the silicon
production process shows silicon dioxide
reacting with carbon to produce silicon
which will be tapped from the furnace
and carbon monoxide gas that will ascend
through the materials in the furnace
there are however two important species
that will also be present in the furnace
silicon carbide and silicon monoxide gas
if we focus on the area around one of
the electrodes we can see the major
zones in a furnace in the lower part of
the furnace the temperature is about
2,000 degrees C with the energy being
produced by the arcs from the electrode
to the liquid silicon at the bottom of
the furnace or to the silicon carbide
crust that has formed in the arc itself
the temperature is much higher the arc
is produced because there is a cavity
around the electrode tip which is filled
with silicon monoxide and carbon
monoxide gas as one goes up the furnace
the temperature decreases and a mixture
of melted silicon dioxide and silicon
carbide is over the cavity Bickford
silicon is very viscous and the material
mix will not flow down naturally as a
result the cavity roof is formed this is
a very simplified picture and during
industrial excavations many different
zones and geometries have been found
however the common picture is the
presence of the cavity alpha silicon
carbide built up in the burner
and parley transformed broad materials
in the top part of the furnace the
temperature on top of the raw materials
is approximately 1,000 degrees C the
most important reaction in the so-called
low temperature zone is the reaction
between carbon and the ascending silicon
dioxide gas as a production of silicon
monoxide gas consumes a lot of energy
the energy consumption will have a
strong correlation with the silicon
monoxide lost out of the thirst the main
role of the carbon added will hence be
to capture the silicon dioxide gas
before it leaves the furnace
the brown condensate will agglomerate
the quartz the silicon carbide particles
are shown in the picture micrographs of
this brown condensate shows that this
silicon embedded in a silicon dioxide
nature
when this condensate is heated as it
descends with the raw materials the
silicon will accumulate into larger
silicon drops and then finally at high
enough temperatures where both silicon
dioxide and silicon is melted the
silicon will flow out of the silicon
dioxide matrix as the condensates
prevent the materials done down in the
furnace the materials are mechanically
pushed down with a stoking machine some
silicon can also be produced in the
silicon carbide particles higher up in
the furnace according to the reaction as
shown in my craft from a pilot scale
furnace experiment as the carbon
monoxide the remaining silicon monoxide
gas are leaving the furnace they will
combine with air at the top of the face
the carbon monoxide and silicon monoxide
gases will oxidize into carbon dioxide
gas and silicon dioxide micro particles
called micro silica
micro silica is an important by-product
and is typically used as filler in
concrete and to produce refractories to
summarize the metallurgical silicon
production the raw materials added to
the furnace are silicon dioxide and
carbon materials wood chips are added to
increase the permeability of the
materials to facilitate gas flow the
materials are added to the furnace
at approximately 1,000 degrees C and
will be gradually heated to 2,000
degrees C the liquid silicon will be
tapped at the lower part of the furnace
into ladles where the trace elements of
aluminium and calcium will be further
reduce the liquid silicon will then be
cast solidified crushed and shipped to
customers the micro silica will be
separated from the off gas in filter
bags and the remaining hot off gas may
be processed via an energy recovery unit
to produce electrical energy as Norway
has a large amount of renewable
electrical energy from hydropower there
are several plants producing silicon and
ferrosilicon like L chem Warka and fin